VESPA is an open-source system-on-chip (SoC) prototyping platform.
It is based on a 2D-mesh network-on-chip (NoC). There are four types
of tiles: CPU, MEM, IO, and ACC. To use this tool,
take a look to the TUTORIAL.md file in the main repository folder.

For more details, please see our [ICCD'24 paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.15574):
```bibtex
@misc{Montanaro_2024ICCD,
      title={A Prototype-Based Framework to Design Scalable Heterogeneous SoCs with Fine-Grained DFS}, 
      author={Gabriele Montanaro and Andrea Galimberti and Davide Zoni},
      year={2024},
      eprint={2411.15574},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={cs.AR},
      url={https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.15574}, 
}
```

## Repository organization

Here is a brief description of the main directories in the repository,
please refer to the READMEs inside each of them for more information.

* `accelerators` contains multiple accelerator design and integration
  flows, as well as many example accelerators.

* `constraints` contains the constraints and attributes for each
  supported FPGA board (or ASIC technology).

* `socs` contains the working folders for launching all Make targets.
  There is one working folder for each supported FPGA board (or ASIC
  technology).

* `rtl` contains the whole RTL code base, excluding the accelerators
  RTL and the RTL generated in the working folder by the SoCGen and
  SocketGen tools.

* `soft` contains bootloader, Linux kernel and root file system, and
  bare-metal library for each of the available processor cores. It
  also contains bare-metal, user space and kernel space libraries for
  invoking and managing accelerators.

* `tech` is the destination of the RTL generated by the HLS-based and
  Chisel-based accelerator design flows. It is also the destination of
  the RTL generated with HLS for the SystemC implementation of the
  cache hierarchy. The generated RTL is organized based on the target
  FPGA (or ASIC) technology.

* `tools` contains tools for design automation and for communicating
  with an VESPA SoC from a host machine.

* `utils` contains various scripts and utilities, including the main
  Makefiles, the RTL file lists, and the software toolchains
  installation scripts.

* `.cache` caches some compiled libraries so they only need to be
  compiled once (e.g. Xilinx simulation libraries).

